If you have type 1 diabetes,
your body does not produce a hormone called insulin
in response to blood glucose levels.
Glucose is a form of sugar,
formed from the breakdown of foods we eat,
especially carbohydrates.
Whenever you eat,
the level of glucose in your blood rises.
Normally, glucose attaches to cells on the pancreas.
This triggers the cells to produce insulin.
The insulin enters the bloodstream
and attaches to receptors on cells
throughout your body.
This allows glucose to enter the cells
and be used for fuel.
If you have type 1 diabetes,
your immune system has destroyed
the cells that produce insulin.
Without insulin,
the glucose can’t move into cells,
so blood levels of glucose become very high.
This condition is called hyperglycemia.
Because the glucose in the blood can’t be used,
it spills into the urine
and passes out of the body.
The inability of cells to get glucose for fuel,
and the loss of glucose in the urine,
results in weakness, weight loss,
and excessive thirst and hunger.